Around the 1650’s, it can be seen that the Caribbean became the world’s first modern region due to its production in sugar. Modernity in the sense of priority of individualism, freedom, and formal equality. Where confidence is in social, scientific, and technological progress; towards industrialization and urbanization. Because of sugar the Caribbean was able to make the transition and development from feudalism to a capitalist market economy. Before the production of sugar, Feudal Europe was a very traditional nation that lacked any sort of capitalistic market. As sugar began to be produced at an exponential rate, the Caribbean saw changes in its everyday economy. The production of sugar required synchronized labor and factories, worldwide trade, and an advancement in technology, resulting in modernity. In addition, it can be argued that the modernity of the Carribean was slightly delayed by the use of slaves which resulted in a lack of freedom and equality. 
	European nations had quickly entered a race to produce the most sugar in the Caribbean. The Spanish had first introduced sugar in the West, followed by the Dutch and Portuguese, but the British ended up having the competitive advantage. According to Sidney Mintz, “England fought the most, conquered the most colonies, imported the most slaves, and went furthest and fastest in creating a plantation system” (Mintz,38). The initial fight for sugar was the start of modernity in the Caribbean. In order to win the fight, and get a competitive advantage, nations needed to figure out the most efficient ways to use the Caribbean Islands to produce sugar. 
Sugar production really pushed the Caribbean to become a more modern when the demand for sugar rapidly increased. “An entirely new taste for sweetness manifested itself, as soon as the means to satisfy it became available… by 1750, the poorest English farm laborer’s wife took sugar in her tea” (Mintz,45). In the mid 18th century, sugar became a near necessity. When people drank tea, it was not a question whether sugar was to going to be added. The Caribbean location and weather conditions were perfect for sugar production.  Sugar, a sweet crystalline substance obtained from various plants, is most efficiently produced from sugar cane. Producing sugar from sugar cane is a complex process, which required a factory and intensive labor, leading to an industrial process, thus contributing towards modernity. According to Mintz, “The cane must be cut when ready as not to lose its juice or proportion of sucrose in this juice; and once it is cut, the juice must be rapidly extracted to avoid desiccation, inversion, or fermentation” (Mintz, 21). The land and mill were inseparable and synchronized labor was a necessity. The organization, discipline, combination of field and factory, skilled or unskilled workers, all led to an industrial cast to plantations. Such industrial process and transition was essential toward modernity.
